h1.  File System Abstraction

Hackboxen need to access files and directories in order to do their
stuff.  We currently expect them to use at least the following types
of filesystems:

* Local File System
* Ephemeral Hadoop cluster HDFS
* s3/HDFS

Each of these filesystem types has different methods to accomplish the same operations. In order to make this diversity more easily used by hackboxen, an abstraction layer has been created.  

h2. Interface

An abstracted filesystem has the following interface: Inside @filesystem.rb@, inside the module @hackboxen@, exists a number of abstraction classes.  Each class supports the following filesystem methods:

* @new@: Constructor
* @rm(path)@: Works like UNIX @rm -r@.
* @exists?(path)@: Returns @true@ if the file/directory exists
* @mv(srcpath,dstpath)@: Renames/moves the file/directory.
* @cp(srcpath,dstpath)@: Works like UNIX @cp -r@.
* @mkpath(dirpath)@: Creates a directory and all required parent directories.
* @type(path)@: Returns one of "dir", "file", or "symlink".
* @entries(dirpath)@: Returns the the files/subdirectories in this directory

Inside the namespace of each class is a class called @File@, which has
the following methods:


* @new@: Constructor
* @open(path,scheme,mode)@ or @new(path,scheme,mode)@: Constructor. Scheme is one of @local@, @hdfs@, or @s3@. mode is one of @r@ or @w@.
* @read@: Return the contents of the entire file as a string.
* @readline@: Return the next line in the file, or nil if there no more lines.
* @write(string)@: Write @string@ to the file.
* @close@:  Close the file

h2. Creating an abstraction

Each abstraction is not expected to catch and rethrow exceptions of the abstracted subsystems. Rather, exceptions should pass through.  However, each method should either return the expected value (which could be nothing), or throw an exception if there is an error.

h2. Usage

The function @filesystem@ is called with a single argument specifying the location of the filesystem.  Use @local@ for the locale filesystem. An instance of a class adhering to this specification is returned.

h2. Current State

The only currently implemented filesystem abstraction is @LocalFileSystem@.



